title: Glossary (ITSM)
Description: List of the main terms and expressions used.
# Glossary (ITSM)

General glossary
-----------------

List of the main terms and expressions used:

1. **Active**: any resource or skill. The assets of a service provider include anything that can contribute to the delivery of a 
service. The assets can be any of the following types: Management, Organization, Process, Knowledge, People, Information, 
Applications, Infrastructure and Financial Capital.

2. **Activity**: set of actions defined to achieve a specific result. Activities are normally defined as part of processes or plans and documented in procedures.

3. **Audit**: inspection and formal verification to confirm if a standard or a set of recommendations are being followed, what 
records are accurate or if the efficiency and effectiveness goals are being met. An audit can be conducted by internal or external 
groups.

4. **Baseline**: the reference used as a starting point for a comparison in the future, that is, initial data that represent the 
situation of the process, where this information is used to compare with the current situation to know if the service or process 
needs improvement . For example, a baseline of configuration management can be used to allow the IT infrastructure to recover its 
previous known configuration after a change or failure in the release.

5. **Best practices**: activities or processes that have proven successful when used in several organizations.

6. **Business**: a corporate entity in general or an organization constituted by a certain number of business units.

7. **Classification**: the act of associating a category with something. The classification is used to ensure consistency in the 
administration and generation of reports. ICs, Incidents, Problems, Changes, etc. They are classified normally.

8. **Collaborator**: a person who has some type of link with the organization, such as: an employee, a partner, etc.

9. **Contract**: an agreement that legally binds two or more entities.

10. **Contract administration**: a database or structured document that is used to manage contracts or service agreements between an 
IT service provider and its customers. Each IT service delivered to a client must have a Contract or other Agreement that is part of 
the Contract Administration.

11. **Evaluation**: the process responsible for verifying a new or modified IT Service to ensure that the risks have been managed 
and to help determine if we should continue with a change. Evaluation is also the term used when we want to compare an actual result 
with a desired one, or compare one alternative with another.

12. **Event Pattern Language**: it is a computer language with a standardization applicable to the analysis of the normally 
monitored events of the IT infrastructure, which adopts the same SQL (Structured Query Language) principles, that is, includes the 
clauses SELECT, FROM , WHERE, GROUP BY, HAVING and ORDER BY. Because events are data composites, these SQL concepts can be applied 
to correlations, joins, filters, and aggregations.

13. **Impact**: measurement of the effect of an incident, problem or change in business processes. The impact is usually based on 
how service levels will be affected.

14. **Improvement plan**: formal plan to implement improvements in an IT process or service.

15. **Information Technology**: set of all activities and solutions provided by computing resources that seek to allow storage, 
communication, access and use of information.

16. **Information technolog infrastructure**: all the hardware, software, networks, facilities, etc., that are necessary to develop, 
test, deliver, monitor, control or support IT services. The term IT Infrastructure includes all information technology, except 
people, processes and associated documentation.

17. **LDAP**: is an open application protocol, free of provider and industry standard to access and maintain directory information 
services distributed in an IP network.

18. **Monitoring**: repetitive observation of a configuration item, IT service or process to detect events and ensure that the 
current status is known.

19. **Order of Service**: document or record that authorizes the execution of a service within a contractual relationship.

20. **Priority**: category used to identify the relative importance of an incident, problem or change. The priority is based on 
impact and urgency, and is used to identify the times required to take appropriate action.

21. **Problem**: is the cause of one or more incidents.

22. **Process**: set of coordinated activities combining and implementing resources and skills in order to produce an output, which, 
directly or indirectly, creates value for a client or interested party.

23. **Provider**: a third party responsible for providing products or services that are necessary for the delivery of IT services.

24. **Registration**: document that contains the results or other output of a process or activity. The records are evidence of fact 
that the activity actually happened and can be done in paper or electronic format.

25. **Service**: essentially intangible act. Represents a set of activities that aim to deliver value to customers, facilitating the 
results they want to achieve

26. **SQL**: Structured Query Language.

27. **Status**: the name of a field required in many types of records in the system. It shows the current situation of the life 
cycle of a configuration item, an incident, a problem, etc.

28. **Unavailability**: time in which an IT service or other configuration item is not available during the agreed service time.

29. **User**: a person who uses the IT Service on a day-to-day basis. Users are different from customers, since some customers do 
not use the IT service directly.

30. **Version**: identification of a baseline of a configuration item. Versions typically use a naming convention to identify the 
sequence or date of each baseline. For example, version 3 of the payroll application contains improved features with respect to 
version 2 

31. **Web Service**: a solution used in the integration of systems and communication between different applications. With this 
technology it is possible that new applications can interact with those that already exist and that systems developed on different 
platforms are compatible. Web Services are components that allow applications to send and receive data in XML format. Each 
application can have its own "language", which is translated into a universal language, the XML format.

32. **WebRTC**: it is an open and free project that provides navigators and mobile applications real-time communication resources 
through simple APIs. With the WebRTC function it is possible to make a telephone call from the Web solution using only the browser, 
provided that a Janus-type server configured to receive Voip requests is available. Generally this connection will fall into a 
central ServiceDesk type.

33. **XML**: is a markup language recommended by the W3C for the creation of documents with hierarchically organized data, such as 
texts, databases or vector drawings. The XML language is classified as extensible because it allows to define the marking elements.

 ITIL Glossary
---------------

List of main ITIL terms and expressions used:

1. **Application Compliance**: process responsible for managing the life cycle of all service requests.
Service Design: phase in the life cycle of an IT Service. Service design includes a certain number of processes and functions.

2. **Asset Management**: business process responsible for tracking and presenting the value and financial responsibility of the 
Assets during their life cycle. Asset management is, in general, part of the process of configuration management and service assets.

3. **Availability**: ability of an IT service or another IC to perform its agreed function when required.

4. **Availability Management**: process responsible for ensuring that IT services meet the current and future business availability 
needs in a more cost-effective and timely manner.

5. **Baseline Configuration**: Baseline of a configuration that has been formally agreed and is managed by the Change Management 
process. A baseline configuration is used as the basis for future constructions, releases and changes.

6. **Capacity**: the maximum performance that a configuration item or IT service can deliver. For some types of ICs, the capacity 
may be size or volume, for example, a disk drive.

7. **Capacity Management**: Process responsible for ensuring that the capacity of IT services and IT infrastructure are able to meet 
the requirements related to capacity and performance agreed in a timely and cost-effective manner.

8. **Catalog of Business Services**: vision of what IT services are offered to the client and which processes use that service.

9. **Catalog of Services**: database or structured document with information on all IT services in production, and includes those 
available for implementation.

10. **Catalog of Technical Services**: shows the relationship between the services and the components used to produce them.

11. **Change**: the increase, modification or elimination of anything that may affect IT services. The scope must include all IT 
services, configuration items, processes, documents, etc.

12. **Change History**: information about all the changes made to a configuration item during its life. The change history consists 
of all change requests that are applied to the IC.

13. **Change Management**: process responsible for controlling the life cycle of all changes. The main objective of Change 
Management is to allow changes that generate benefits to be made with the minimum interruption to IT Services.

14. **Change Request**: formal request for a change to be made. An SDC includes the details of the requested change and can be 
recorded on paper or in electronic format.

15. **CMDB**: Configuration Management Database. The database of the configuration is a database that contains all the relevant 
information about the components of the information system used in the IT services of an organization and the relationships between 
these components.

16. **Consultative Committee on Change**: group of people who support the evaluation, prioritization, authorization and programming 
of changes. Service Contract: contract for the delivery of one or more IT services. The term Service Agreement may also mean any 
agreement to deliver IT Services, whether it is a legal contract or an ANS.

17. **Configuration Item**: is an asset, service component, or other item that is, or will be under the control of Configuration 
Management. For example: hardware, software, facilities, documentation, etc.

18. **Configuration Item type**: category that is used to classify the configuration items. Identify the required attributes and 
relationships between configuration records.

19. **Configuration Management**: process responsible for maintaining the information on the configuration items necessary for the 
delivery of IT services, including their relationships. This information is administered throughout the IC life cycle. Configuration 
management is part of the most complete process called the configuration and active service administration process.

20. **Event**: change of state that has meaning for the administration of a configuration item or IT service. The event is typically 
notifications created by IT service, configuration item or monitoring tool. Examples of events: failure of backup programming, entry 
into the system twice as many users as normal, unauthorized user has accessed the network, slowness in the system, excess of wrong 
calls to the servicedesk or any other situation that has relevance for who is managing IT services.

21. **Event Check**: rule or condition that involves infrastructure events, normally configured / programmed so that there is 
direction in the monitoring of events.

22. **Event Management**: process responsible for the management of events during their life cycle. It allows to detect events, 
analyze them and determine appropriate control actions. It is, therefore, the basis for operational monitoring and control. It can 
be related to other processes, such as configuration management and service assets. In relation to this process, Event Management 
can help determine the status of the life cycle of the assets. For example, an event may be generated to indicate that an asset was 
configured incorrectly, impacting the operation and delivery of the service. In addition, it can be a rich source of information for 
Knowledge Management Systems. For example, performance standards can be correlated with business activities and used as a basis for 
future strategic decisions.

23. **Demand Management**: process responsible for understanding, forecasting and influencing customer demand for services.

24. **Incident**: is an unplanned interruption of an IT service or a reduction in the quality of an IT service, its record in the system contains the details of an incident and documents the life cycle of a single Incident.

25. **Incident Management**: process responsible for managing the life cycle of all incidents. The main objective of incident 
management is to restore the IT service to the users as soon as possible.

26. **Information Technology Infrastructure Library**: set of best practices that guide the IT Service Management. ITIL is an 
example of Best Practice (see this link for more details).

27. **Information Technology Service Continuity Management**: process responsible for the management of risks that can seriously 
affect IT services.

28. **Knowledge Base**: logical database that contains the data of the Service Knowledge Management System. This information can be 
used to solve the problems presented.

29. **Knowledge Management**: process responsible for collecting, analyzing, storing and sharing knowledge and information with the 
rest of the organization. The main purpose of Knowledge Management is the improvement of efficiency through the reduction of the 
need to rediscover knowledge.

30. **Known error**: it is a problem that has cause and solution of documented contour. Known errors are created and managed 
throughout their life cycle by problem management.

31. **Life cycle**: the various phases in the life of an IT Service, Configuration Item, Incident, Problem, Change, etc. The life 
cycle defines the categories for the state and the state transitions that are allowed. For example: The life cycle of an application 
includes requirements, design, construction, testing, implementation, operation, optimization.

32. **Management of Configuration and Assets of Services**: responsible process as much for the management of the configuration and 
the management of assets.

33. **Management of the Service Portfolio**: process responsible for managing the service portfolio. This process guarantees that 
the service provider has the correct composition of services to attend to business results at an appropriate level of investment.

34. **Operating Level Agreement**: agreement between the IT Service Provider and another part of the same organization that supports 
the provision of services.

35. **Problem**: it is the cause of one or more incidents, its record in the system contains the details of a problem and documents 
the life cycle of a single problem.

36. **Problem Management**: process responsible for managing the life cycle of all problems. It is intended to find the cause of the 
problems that occur in the IT infrastructure. The main objectives of problem management are: to prevent incidents from occurring and 
to minimize the impact of incidents that can not be prevented.

37. **Release**: a collection of hardware, software, documentation, processes or other components needed to implement one or more 
approved changes to IT Services. The content of each release is administered, tested and implemented as a single entity.

38. **Release Management**: process responsible for the planning, programming and control of moving releases for test and production 
environments. The main objective of release management is to ensure that the integrity of the production environment is protected 
and that the correct components are released.

39. **Service Level**: reported and measured result compared to service level goals. The term Service level is sometimes used as an 
informal term for the service level goal.

40. **Service Portfolio**: represents all services in analysis, development, production or obsolete.

41. **Service Level Agreement**: document where the agreement between the Client and the IT Service Provider is described in 
relation to the service that will be provided

42. **Support Service**: service that is necessary to deliver a main service.

43. **Service Level Management**: process responsible for negotiating Service Level Agreements and ensuring that they are met. 
Service level management is responsible for ensuring that all processes of IT service administration, operating level agreements and 
support contracts are appropriate for the agreed service level goals. Service level management monitors and reports service levels 
and holds regular review meetings with clients.

44. **Service Level Requirement**: customer requirement in relation to an aspect of an IT service. RNSs are based on business 
objectives and are used to negotiate agreed service level goals.

45. **Service Management**: is a specialized set of organizational skills to provide value to clients in the form of Services.

46. **Service Request**: is a request from the user for information, advice, default change or access to an IT service. A service 
request is usually handled by the service center and does not require the opening of an SDC.

47. **Type of Request**: category that is used to distinguish the requests made to the Service Center. The most common request types 
are, Incident, Service request and service order.

Glossário of acronyms
-------------------------

List of the main acronyms used:

1. **AD**: Active Directory.

2. **AM/PM**: Ante Merīdiem/Post Merīdiem

3. **CCB**: Change Control Board.

    - Portuguese (pt-BR): **CCM** (Comitê de Controle de Mudanças).
    - Spanish (es):**CAC**: Comité Asesor de Cambios.
    
4. **CI**: Configuration Item.
    
5. **CMDB**: Configuration Management Database.

6. **CTPS**: Carteira de Trabalho e Previdência Social (brazilian acronym).
    
7. **DDD**: Discagem Direta a Distância (brazilian acronym).
    
8. **DN**: Distinguished Name.

9. **EIN**: Employer Identification Number.

    - Portuguese (pt-BR): **CNPJ** (Certificado Nacional de Pessoa Jurídica).
    - Spanish (es): **RUT** (Registro Único Tributario)

10. **EPL**: Event Processing Language.

11. **IP**: Internet Protocol.

12. **IT**: Information Technology.

13. **ITIL**: Information Technology Infrastructure Library.

14. **LDAP**: Lightweight Directory Access Protocol.

15. **NIT**: Número de Identificação do Trabalhador (brazilian acronym).

16. **OS**: Order of Service.

17. **PIS/PASEP**: Programa de Integração Social e do Programa de Formação do Patrimônio do Servidor Público (brazilian acronym).

18. **RFC**: Request for Change.

    - Portuguese (pt-BR): **RDM** (Requisição de Mudança).
    - Spanish (es):**SDC**: Solicitud de Cambio.

19. **RG**: Registro Geral (brazilian acronym).
    
20. **RTC**: Real Time Communication.

21. **SLR**: Service Level Requeirement.

    - Portuguese (pt-BR):**RNS**: Requisito de Nível de Serviço.
    - Spanish (es):**RNS**: Requisito de Nivel de Servicio.
    
22. **SSN**: Social Security Number.

    - Portuguese (pt-BR): **CPF**: Certificado de Pessoa Física (brazilian acronym).
    - Spanish (es): **RUC** (Registro Único del Contribuinte).

23. **UF**: Unidade Federativa (brazilian).

24. **XML**: eXtensible Markup Language.

25. **ZIP**: Zone Improvement Plan.

    - Portuguese (pt-BR): **CEP** (Código de Endereçamento Postal).
    - Espanhol (es): **CP** (Código Postal).

!!! tip "About"

    <b>Product/Version:</b> CITSmart | 7.00 &nbsp;&nbsp;
    <b>Updated:</b>17/09/2019 - Larissa Lourenço
